**1.1 General overview of the system**

The system is divided into two parts:
- The first part consists of programs and services that have made the UNIX system environment so popular; it is the part readily apparent to users, including such programs as the shell, mail, text processing packages, and source code eontrol systems
- The second part consists of the operating system that supports these programs and services

History:
- Start from a project that create a new operating system named **Multics** of Bell Telephone Laboratories in 1965
- The primitive version of the Multics system was running on a GE 645 computer by 1969, but not as good as expected. Bell Laboratories ended its participation in the project
- After that, member of Multics project **Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie** and others, in an attempt to improve their programming environment, then sketched a paper design of a file system
- **Thompson** wrote programs that simulated the behavior of the proposed file system and of programs in a demand-paging environment, and he even encoded a simple kernel for the GE 645 computer
- To create a better development environment when programming the "Space Travel" game, **Thompson** and **Ritchie** implemented their system design on the PDP-7, including an early version of the UNIX file system, the process subsystem, and a small set of utility programs
- The new system was given the name **UNIX**, a pun on the name Multics
- After 1971, **Ritchie** develop **B** language into one he called **C**, which allowing generation of machine code, declaration of data types, and definition of data structures
- In 1973, the Unix OS was rewritten in **C**, and from that it has tremendous impact on its acceptance among outside users. The number of insta llations at Bell Laboratories grew to about 25, and a UNIX Systems Group was formed to provide internal support
- 1977, also marked the year that the
UNIX system was first "ported" to a non-PDP machine (that is, made to run on
another machine with few or no changes) , the Interdata 8/32
- With the growing popularity of microprocessors, other companies ported the UNIX system to new machines, but its simplicity and clarity tempted many
developers to enhance it in their own way, resulting in several variants of the basic system
- In the period from 1977 to 1982, Bell Laboratories combined several AT&T variants into a single system, known commercially as UNIX System III. Bell Laboratories later added several features t o UNIX System III, calling the new product UNIX System V and AT&T announced official support for **System V** in January 1983
- By the beginning of 1984, there were about 100,000 UNIX system installations in the world. No other operating system cam make that claim

Reason have been suggested for the popularily and success of the UNIX system:
- The system is written in a high-level language, making it easy to read, understand, change, and move to other machines. Ritchie estimates that the
first system in C was 20 to 40 percent larger and slower because it was not
written in assembly language, but the advantages of using a higher-level language far outweigh the disadvantages.
- It has a simple user interface that has the power to provide the services that
users want.
- It provides primitives that permit complex programs to be built from simpler
programs.
- It uses a hierarchical file system that allows easy maintenance and efficient
implementation.
- It uses a consistent format for files, the byte stream, making application
programs easier to write.
- It provides a simple, consistent interface to peripheral devices.
- It is a multi-user, multiprocess system; each user can execute several processes
simultaneously.
- It hides the machine architecture from the user, making it easier to write
programs that run on diffet-ent hardware implementations.
